ASP.NET Core best practices and guidance (#42881)
dotnet/docs: docs/azure/sdk/aspnetcore-guidance.md

- [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) provides helper methods to properly register your services and handles various concerns for you, such as setting up logging, handling service lifetimes, and authentication credential management.
- [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) enables Microsoft Entra ID authentication support across the Azure SDK. It provides a set of [TokenCredential](/dotnet/api/azure.core.tokencredential?view=azure-dotnet) implementations to construct Azure SDK clients that support Microsoft Entra authentication.
- `Azure.<service-namespace>` libraries, such as [Azure.Storage.Blob](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs) and [Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus), provide service clients and other types to help you connect to and consume specific Azure services. For a complete inventory of these libraries, see [Libraries using Azure.Core](/dotnet/azure/sdk/packages#libraries-using-azurecore).

In the sections ahead, you'll explore how to implement these libraries in an ASP.NET Core app.

## Register service clients

> The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries provide service clients to connect your app to Azure services such as Azure Blob Storage and Azure Key Vault. Register these services with the dependency container in the `Program.cs` file of your app to make them available to your app via [dependency injection](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries provide service clients to connect your app to Azure services such as Azure Blob Storage and Azure Key Vault. Register these services with the dependency container in the `Program.cs` file of your app to make them available via [dependency injection](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Azure
    ```

2. Add the relevant `Azure.*` service packages:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets
    dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs
    dotnet add package Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus
    ```

3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `AddAzureClients` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client for each service. Some services use additional subclients, which you can also register for dependency injection via the `AddClient` extension method.

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Program.cs" range="11-30" highlight="4-7,13-15":::

4. Inject the registered services into your ASP.NET Core app components, services, or API endpoint:

    <!-- markdownlint-disable MD023 -->
    ## [Minimal API](#tab/api)

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="44-59" highlight="1,4,5":::

    <!-- markdownlint-disable MD023 -->
    ## [Blazor](#tab/blazor)

>     :::code language="razor" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Components/Pages/Home.razor" range="1-28" highlight="5,21":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::code language="razor" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Components/Pages/Home.razor" range="1-28" highlight="5,21-22":::
```

    ---

For more information, see [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection).

## Authenticate using Microsoft Entra ID

> [Microsoft Entra ID](/entra/fundamentals/whatis) is the recommended approach to authenticate requests to Azure services. This identity service supports [role-based access control (RBAC)](/azure/role-based-access-control/overview) to manage access to Azure resources based on a user's Entra ID account and assigned roles.
> 
> Use the [Azure Identity](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) client library to implement secretless connections to Azure services in your code with Microsoft Entra ID. The Azure Identity client library provides tools such as [`DefaultAzureCredential`](/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential) to simplify configuring secure connections. `DefaultAzureCredential` supports multiple authentication methods and determines which method should be used at runtime. This approach enables your app to use different authentication methods in different environments (local vs. production) without implementing environment-specific code. Visit the [Authentication](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication) section of the Azure SDK for .NET docs for more details on these topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token-based authentication with [Microsoft Entra ID](/entra/fundamentals/whatis) is the recommended approach to authenticate requests to Azure services. To authorize those requests, [Azure role-based access control (RBAC)](/azure/role-based-access-control/overview) manages access to Azure resources based on a user's Microsoft Entra identity and assigned roles.

Use the [Azure Identity](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) library for the aforementioned token-based authentication support. The library provides classes such as [`DefaultAzureCredential`](/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential) to simplify configuring secure connections. `DefaultAzureCredential` supports multiple authentication methods and determines which method should be used at runtime. This approach enables your app to use different authentication methods in different environments (local vs. production) without implementing environment-specific code. Visit the [Authentication](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication) section of the Azure SDK for .NET docs for more details on these topics.
```

> [!NOTE]
> Many Azure services also allow you to authorize requests using keys. However, this approach should be used with caution. Developers must be diligent to never expose the access key in an unsecure location. Anyone who has the access key can authorize requests against the associated Azure resource.

> Consider the following use of `DefaultAzureCredential`:

Reviewer: Add the .NET CLI command to install the Azure Identity package. I also think it would be good to use a numbered list of steps here, as was done in other sections.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Program.cs" range="11-30" highlight="19":::

> In the preceding code, the `UseCredential` method accepts an instance of `DefaultAzureCredential` to reuse across your registered services. `DefaultAzureCredential` discovers available credentials in the current environment and use them to connect to Azure services. The order and locations in which `DefaultAzureCredential` looks for credentials lives in the [DefaultAzureCredential overview](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication/credential-chains?tabs=dac#defaultazurecredential-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding code, the `UseCredential` method accepts an instance of `DefaultAzureCredential` to reuse across your registered services. `DefaultAzureCredential` discovers available credentials in the current environment and uses them to authenticate to Azure services. For the order and locations in which `DefaultAzureCredential` scans for credentials, see [DefaultAzureCredential overview](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication/credential-chains?tabs=dac#defaultazurecredential-overview).
```

## Apply configurations

Azure SDK service clients support configurations to change their default behaviors. There are two ways to configure service clients:

> - [JSON configuration files](/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration-providers#json-configuration-provider) are generally the recommended approach because they simplify app deployments between environments and reduce hardcoded values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [JSON configuration files](/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration-providers#json-configuration-provider) are generally the recommended approach because they simplify managing differences in app deployments between environments.
```

1. Update the the `Program.cs` file to retrieve the JSON file configurations using `IConfiguration` and pass them into your service registrations:

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="13-31" highlight="4-5,7-8,11-12":::

### Configure Azure defaults and retries

You may want to change default Azure client configurations globally or for a specific service client. For example, you may want different retry settings or to use a different service API version. You can set the retry settings globally or on a per-service basis.

1. Update your configuration file to set default Azure settings, such as a new default retry policy:

    :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="9-18":::

> 2. In the `Program.cs` file, the `ConfigureDefaults` extension method `AddAzureClients` retrieves the default settings and applies them to your services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `Program.cs` file, the `ConfigureDefaults` extension method retrieves the default settings and applies them to your services:
```

The following table depicts how the Azure SDK for .NET `EventLevel` maps to the ASP.NET Core `LogLevel`. For more information on these topics and other scenarios, visit the [Logging with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) and [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection) pages.

| Azure SDK `EventLevel` | ASP.NET Core `LogLevel` |
|------------------------|-------------------------|
| `Critical`             | `Critical`              |
| `Error`                | `Error`                 |
| `Informational`        | `Information`           |
| `Warning`              | `Warning`               |
| `Verbose`              | `Debug`                 |
| `LogAlways`            | `Information`           |

> You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#authenticate-using-microsoft-entra-id) section. For example, toggle a the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:

Reviewer: In addition to this change, did you mean to link to a different section than "configure authentication"?
```suggestion
You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#authenticate-using-microsoft-entra-id) section. For example, toggle the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:
```

---
title: Best practices for using the Azure SDK with ASP.NET Core
description: Learn best practices and the steps to properly implement the Azure SDK for .NET in your ASP.NET Core apps.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: devx-track-dotnet
ms.date: 10/22/2024
---

# Use the Azure SDK for .NET in ASP.NET Core apps

> The Azure SDK for .NET enables ASP.NET Core apps to integrate with many different Azure services. In this article, you'll learn best practices and the steps to implement the Azure SDK for .NET in your ASP.NET Core apps. You'll learn how to:

Reviewer 2: nit: "implement the Azure SDK for .NET" sounds like what we do on our team ... is there another turn of phrase that would communicate that the reader's goal is to use Azure SDK for .NET clients in an ASP.NET Core app?

Author: This is an interesting consideration. I think "implement an SDK in your code" is a fairly standard phrase, but we could also use terms such as "incorporate, integrate, adopt", etc. Integrate would probably be my next choice.

Reviewer 2: Cool, I haven't heard it, but if it is common, I will update my brain :)

Integrate sounds good to my ears, but totally your call.

> - Register services for dependency injection.

Reviewer 2: nit: I defer to you on this @alexwolfmsft -- I expect a reader who has a good understanding of DI to know that you mean services in the DI "service collection" sense.  But if a reader is not familiar with this terminology and only knows about the Azure client/service terminology, they might think this means they will learn to register an Azure service.  Perhaps something like "register Azure SDK clients with the DI service collection" might resolve this possible ambiguity?

- Authenticate to Azure without using passwords or secrets.
- Implement centralized, standardized configuration.
- Configure common web app concerns such as logging and retries.

## Explore common Azure SDK client libraries

ASP.NET Core apps that connect to Azure services generally depend on the following Azure SDK client libraries:

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) provides helper methods to properly register your services and handles various concerns for you, such as setting up logging, handling service lifetimes, and authentication credential management.

Reviewer 2: nit:

```suggestion
- [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) provides helper methods to register clients with the dependency injection service collection and handles various concerns for you, such as setting up logging, handling DI service lifetimes, and authentication credential management.
```

- [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) enables Microsoft Entra ID authentication support across the Azure SDK. It provides a set of [TokenCredential](/dotnet/api/azure.core.tokencredential?view=azure-dotnet) implementations to construct Azure SDK clients that support Microsoft Entra authentication.
- `Azure.<service-namespace>` libraries, such as [Azure.Storage.Blob](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs) and [Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus), provide service clients and other types to help you connect to and consume specific Azure services. For a complete inventory of these libraries, see [Libraries using Azure.Core](/dotnet/azure/sdk/packages#libraries-using-azurecore).

> In the sections ahead, you'll explore how to implement these libraries in an ASP.NET Core app.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
In the sections ahead, you'll explore how to implement an ASP.NET Core application that uses these libraries.
```

## Register service clients

The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries provide service clients to connect your app to Azure services such as Azure Blob Storage and Azure Key Vault. Register these services with the dependency container in the `Program.cs` file of your app to make them available via [dependency injection](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).

Complete the following steps to register the services you need:

1. Add the [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) package:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Azure
    ```

> 2. Add the relevant `Azure.*` service packages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add the relevant `Azure.*` service client packages:
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets
    dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs
    dotnet add package Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus
    ```

> 3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `AddAzureClients` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client for each service. Some services use additional subclients, which you can also register for dependency injection via the `AddClient` extension method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `AddAzureClients` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client to communicate with each Azure service.  Some client libraries provide additional subclients for specific subgroups of Azure service functionality.  You can register such subclients for dependency injection via the `AddClient` extension method.
```

Use the [Azure Identity](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) library for the aforementioned token-based authentication support. The library provides classes such as [`DefaultAzureCredential`](/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential) to simplify configuring secure connections. `DefaultAzureCredential` supports multiple authentication methods and determines which method should be used at runtime. This approach enables your app to use different authentication methods in different environments (local vs. production) without implementing environment-specific code. Visit the [Authentication](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication) section of the Azure SDK for .NET docs for more details on these topics.

> [!NOTE]
> Many Azure services also allow you to authorize requests using keys. However, this approach should be used with caution. Developers must be diligent to never expose the access key in an unsecure location. Anyone who has the access key can authorize requests against the associated Azure resource.

1. Add the [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) package:

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Azure.Identity

> ```

Reviewer: Indent these lines to fix the list numbering

1. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `UseCredential` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to set a shared `DefaultAzureCredential` instance for all registered Azure service clients:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Program.cs" range="11-30" highlight="19":::

`DefaultAzureCredential` discovers available credentials in the current environment and uses them to authenticate to Azure services. For the order and locations in which `DefaultAzureCredential` scans for credentials, see [DefaultAzureCredential overview](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication/credential-chains?tabs=dac#defaultazurecredential-overview).

## Apply configurations

Azure SDK service clients support configurations to change their default behaviors. There are two ways to configure service clients:

> - [JSON configuration files](/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration-providers#json-configuration-provider) are generally the recommended approach because they simplify managing differences in app deployments between environments.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth calling out here that standard `IConfiguration` precedence rules are respected by the Microsoft.Extensions.Azure extension methods?  Assuming that is the case and worth noting, I believe that there are other ways as well, including environment variables, and various other configuration providers described in [Configuration Providers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration#configuration-providers)

- Inline code configurations can be applied when you register the service client. For example, in the [Register clients and subclients](#register-service-clients) section, you explicitly passed the URI variables to the client constructors.

> Complete the steps in the following sections to update your app to use JSON file configuration for the appropriate environments. Use the `appsettings.Development.json` file for development settings and the `appsettings.Production.json` file for production environment settings. You can add any properties from the [`ClientOptions`](/dotnet/api/azure.core.clientoptions) class to the JSON file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Complete the steps in the following sections to update your app to use JSON file configuration for the appropriate environments. Use the `appsettings.Development.json` file for development settings and the `appsettings.Production.json` file for production environment settings. You can add configuration settings whose names are public properties on the [`ClientOptions`](/dotnet/api/azure.core.clientoptions) class to the JSON file.
```

### Configure registered services

1. Update the `appsettings.<environment>.json` file in your app with the highlighted service configurations:

    :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="19-27":::

    In the preceding JSON sample:

>     - The top-level key names, `KeyVault`, `ServiceBus`, and `Storage`, are arbitrary names used to reference the config sections from your code. All other key names map to specific service options, and JSON serialization is performed in a case-insensitive manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The top-level key names, `KeyVault`, `ServiceBus`, and `Storage`, are arbitrary names used to reference the config sections from your code.  You will pass these names to `AddClient` extension methods to configure a given client. All other key names map to specific client options, and JSON serialization is performed in a case-insensitive manner.
```

>     - The `KeyVault:VaultUri`, `ServiceBus:Namespace`, and `Storage:ServiceUri` key values map to the arguments of the <xref:Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets.SecretClient.%23ctor(System.Uri,Azure.Core.TokenCredential,Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets.SecretClientOptions)?displayProperty=name>, <xref:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus.ServiceBusClient.%23ctor(System.String)?displayProperty=name>, and <xref:Azure.Storage.Blobs.BlobServiceClient.%23ctor(System.Uri,Azure.Core.TokenCredential,Azure.Storage.Blobs.BlobClientOptions)?displayProperty=name> constructor overloads, respectively. The `TokenCredential` variants of the constructors are used because a default `TokenCredential` is set via the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.UseCredential(Azure.Core.TokenCredential)?displayProperty=name> method call.

Reviewer 3: @tg-msft - are we still recommending using this pattern going forward? Or was this going to changed/be enhanced in the future?

Reviewer 4: We're looking at ways to improve integration with configuration and DI, but those are longer-term initiatives.   In the short term, this is still the approach used by the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` client factories.

Reviewer 2: @eerhardt, I am driving some of this work, so pls reach out if you have any suggestions to add to our feature wishlist.

1. Update the the `Program.cs` file to retrieve the JSON file configurations using `IConfiguration` and pass them into your service registrations:

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="13-31" highlight="4-5,7-8,11-12":::

### Configure Azure defaults and retries

You may want to change default Azure client configurations globally or for a specific service client. For example, you may want different retry settings or to use a different service API version. You can set the retry settings globally or on a per-service basis.

> 1. Update your configuration file to set default Azure settings, such as a new default retry policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Update your configuration file to set default Azure settings, such as a new default retry policy that all registered Azure clients will use:
```

    :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="9-18":::

> 2. In the `Program.cs` file, the `ConfigureDefaults` extension method retrieves the default settings and applies them to your services:

Reviewer 2: Curiosity question here -- if a caller doesn't call `ConfigureDefaults` -- are settings from the `AzureDefault` block not applied to clients?

Author: @scottaddie  do you know the answer to this?

Reviewer: `ConfigureDefaults` must be called to apply these settings. That `AzureDefaults` JSON property name is arbitrary.

Reviewer 2: I think I just responded to a similar comment, although maybe that one is a little different ... I will also add this to the wishlist of features for the new approach and assess technical feasibility as part of that workstream.  Thanks @scottaddie!

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="13-31" highlight="17-18":::

## Configure logging

> The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries can log client library operations to monitor requests and responses to Azure services. When you register an Azure SDK client using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method, the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureEventSourceLogForwarder> is registered with the dependency injection container. This service forwards log messages from Azure SDK event sources to <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILoggerFactory> to enables you to use the standard ASP.NET Core logging configuration for logging.

Reviewer 2: > log client library operations to monitor requests and responses to Azure services

Up to you whether it's worth calling out here, but Azure clients log both HTTP request/response traffic and a variety of other events (retries, token retrieval success, and more from Core, and then additional service-specific events from various clients).

> The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries can log client library operations to monitor requests and responses to Azure services. When you register an Azure SDK client using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method, the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureEventSourceLogForwarder> is registered with the dependency injection container. This service forwards log messages from Azure SDK event sources to <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILoggerFactory> to enables you to use the standard ASP.NET Core logging configuration for logging.

Reviewer 2: > the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureEventSourceLogForwarder> is registered with the dependency injection container.

Is it worth adding something preceding this comment to say that Azure clients log to EventSource by default?  This might help explain why someone would want to add the forwarder to the DI container.

The following table depicts how the Azure SDK for .NET `EventLevel` maps to the ASP.NET Core `LogLevel`. For more information on these topics and other scenarios, visit the [Logging with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) and [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection) pages.

| Azure SDK `EventLevel` | ASP.NET Core `LogLevel` |
|------------------------|-------------------------|
| `Critical`             | `Critical`              |
| `Error`                | `Error`                 |
| `Informational`        | `Information`           |
| `Warning`              | `Warning`               |
| `Verbose`              | `Debug`                 |
| `LogAlways`            | `Information`           |

> You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#authenticate-using-microsoft-entra-id) section. For example, toggle the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:

Reviewer 2: Does the caller need to do anything in imperative code to apply these defaults to Azure clients?

Author: I'm not sure if I understand this question - I believe the JSON configuration changes are picked up automatically as long as the code is pulling in the JSON.

Reviewer: To answer Anne's question, the defaults are only applied by calling `ConfigureDefaults`.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @scottaddie!  I'll add this to my list of something to address in the new approach if possible ... it seems like defaults should default to defaults without user action.  IDK offhand if that is always possible, but it's worth trying to achieve at least.

Reviewer: I'm in agreement with that philosophy

- Register services for dependency injection.
- Authenticate to Azure without using passwords or secrets.
- Implement centralized, standardized configuration.
- Configure common web app concerns such as logging and retries.

## Explore common Azure SDK client libraries

ASP.NET Core apps that connect to Azure services generally depend on the following Azure SDK client libraries:

- [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) provides helper methods to register clients with the dependency injection service collection and handles various concerns for you, such as setting up logging, handling DI service lifetimes, and authentication credential management.
- [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) enables Microsoft Entra ID authentication support across the Azure SDK. It provides a set of [TokenCredential](/dotnet/api/azure.core.tokencredential?view=azure-dotnet) implementations to construct Azure SDK clients that support Microsoft Entra authentication.

> - `Azure.<service-namespace>` libraries, such as [Azure.Storage.Blob](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs) and [Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus), provide service clients and other types to help you connect to and consume specific Azure services. For a complete inventory of these libraries, see [Libraries using Azure.Core](/dotnet/azure/sdk/packages#libraries-using-azurecore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Azure.<service-namespace>` libraries, such as [Azure.Storage.Blobs](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs) and [Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus), provide service clients and other types to help you connect to and consume specific Azure services. For a complete inventory of these libraries, see [Libraries using Azure.Core](/dotnet/azure/sdk/packages#libraries-using-azurecore).
```

In the sections ahead, you'll explore how to implement an ASP.NET Core application that uses these libraries.

## Register Azure SDK clients with the DI service collection

The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries provide service clients to connect your app to Azure services such as Azure Blob Storage and Azure Key Vault. Register these services with the dependency container in the `Program.cs` file of your app to make them available via [dependency injection](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).

Complete the following steps to register the services you need:

1. Add the [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) package:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Azure
    ```

2. Add the relevant `Azure.*` service client packages:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets
    dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Blobs
    dotnet add package Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus
    ```

> 3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `AddAzureClients` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client to communicate with each Azure service.  Some client libraries provide additional subclients for specific subgroups of Azure service functionality.  You can register such subclients for dependency injection via the `AddClient` extension method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client to communicate with each Azure service. Some client libraries provide additional subclients for specific subgroups of Azure service functionality. You can register such subclients for dependency injection via the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.AddClient%2A> extension method.
```

> 3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client to communicate with each Azure service. Some client libraries provide additional subclients for specific subgroups of Azure service functionality. You can register such subclients for dependency injection via the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.AddClient%2A> extension method.

Reviewer: Add a link to our design guidelines for folks who are interested in reading more about subclients.
```suggestion
3. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to register a client to communicate with each Azure service. Some client libraries provide additional [subclients](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html#dotnet-subclients) for specific subgroups of Azure service functionality. You can register such subclients for dependency injection via the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.AddClient%2A> extension method.
```

Use the [Azure Identity](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme) library for the aforementioned token-based authentication support. The library provides classes such as [`DefaultAzureCredential`](/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential) to simplify configuring secure connections. `DefaultAzureCredential` supports multiple authentication methods and determines which method should be used at runtime. This approach enables your app to use different authentication methods in different environments (local vs. production) without implementing environment-specific code. Visit the [Authentication](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication) section of the Azure SDK for .NET docs for more details on these topics.

> [!NOTE]
> Many Azure services also allow you to authorize requests using keys. However, this approach should be used with caution. Developers must be diligent to never expose the access key in an unsecure location. Anyone who has the access key can authorize requests against the associated Azure resource.

1. Add the [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) package:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Azure.Identity
    ```

> 1. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the `UseCredential` extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to set a shared `DefaultAzureCredential` instance for all registered Azure service clients:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.UseCredential%2A> extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to set a shared `DefaultAzureCredential` instance for all registered Azure service clients:
```

> 1. In the `Program.cs` file of your app, invoke the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientFactoryBuilder.UseCredential%2A> extension method from the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` library to set a shared `DefaultAzureCredential` instance for all registered Azure service clients:

Reviewer: We should also explain the benefit of a shared `DefaultAzureCredential` instance. The underlying [token cache](https://aka.ms/azsdk/net/identity/token-cache) is used, which improves application resilience and performance (thanks to fewer requests for a new token).

> :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/BlazorSample/Program.cs" range="11-30" highlight="19":::

Reviewer: Indent this line to visually associate the code block with the list item above it

> `DefaultAzureCredential` discovers available credentials in the current environment and uses them to authenticate to Azure services. For the order and locations in which `DefaultAzureCredential` scans for credentials, see [DefaultAzureCredential overview](/dotnet/azure/sdk/authentication/credential-chains?tabs=dac#defaultazurecredential-overview).

Reviewer: Indent this paragraph too, since it applies to the list item

## Apply configurations

Azure SDK service clients support configurations to change their default behaviors. There are two ways to configure service clients:

- [JSON configuration files](/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration-providers#json-configuration-provider) are generally the recommended approach because they simplify managing differences in app deployments between environments.
- Inline code configurations can be applied when you register the service client. For example, in the [Register clients and subclients](#register-service-clients) section, you explicitly passed the URI variables to the client constructors.

`IConfiguration` precedence rules are respected by the `Microsoft.Extensions.Azure` extension methods, which are detailed in the [Configuration Providers](/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration#configuration-providers) documentation.

> Complete the steps in the following sections to update your app to use JSON file configuration for the appropriate environments. Use the `appsettings.Development.json` file for development settings and the `appsettings.Production.json` file for production environment settings. You can add configuration settings whose names are public properties on the [`ClientOptions`](/dotnet/api/azure.core.clientoptions) class to the JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the steps in the following sections to update your app to use JSON file configuration for the appropriate environments. Use the `appsettings.Development.json` file for development settings and the `appsettings.Production.json` file for production environment settings. You can add configuration settings whose names are public properties on the <xref:Azure.Core.ClientOptions> class to the JSON file.
```

1. Update the the `Program.cs` file to retrieve the JSON file configurations using `IConfiguration` and pass them into your service registrations:

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="13-31" highlight="4-5,7-8,11-12":::

### Configure Azure defaults and retries

You may want to change default Azure client configurations globally or for a specific service client. For example, you may want different retry settings or to use a different service API version. You can set the retry settings globally or on a per-service basis.

1. Update your configuration file to set default Azure settings, such as a new default retry policy that all registered Azure clients will use:

    :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="9-18":::

> 2. In the `Program.cs` file, the `ConfigureDefaults` extension method retrieves the default settings and applies them to your services:

Reviewer: Reword this sentence a bit to make it clear there's action to be taken.
```suggestion
2. In the `Program.cs` file, call the `ConfigureDefaults` extension method to retrieve the default settings and apply them to your service clients:
```

    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/Program.cs" range="13-31" highlight="17-18":::

## Configure logging

The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries can log client library operations to monitor requests and responses to Azure services. Client libraries can also log a variety of other events, including retries, token retrieval, and service-specific events from various clients. When you register an Azure SDK client using the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method, the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureEventSourceLogForwarder> is registered with the dependency injection container. The `AzureEventSourceLogForwarder` forwards log messages from Azure SDK event sources to <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILoggerFactory> to enables you to use the standard ASP.NET Core logging configuration for logging.

> The following table depicts how the Azure SDK for .NET `EventLevel` maps to the ASP.NET Core `LogLevel`. For more information on these topics and other scenarios, visit the [Logging with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) and [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection) pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table depicts how the Azure SDK for .NET `EventLevel` maps to the ASP.NET Core `LogLevel`. For more information on these topics and other scenarios, see [Logging with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) and [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection).
```

| Azure SDK `EventLevel` | ASP.NET Core `LogLevel` |
|------------------------|-------------------------|
| `Critical`             | `Critical`              |
| `Error`                | `Error`                 |
| `Informational`        | `Information`           |
| `Warning`              | `Warning`               |
| `Verbose`              | `Debug`                 |
| `LogAlways`            | `Information`           |

You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#authenticate-using-microsoft-entra-id) section. For example, toggle the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:

> :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="2-8":::

Reviewer: Highlight only the key-value pair mentioned in the lead-in text
```suggestion
:::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="6":::
```

---
title: Best practices for using the Azure SDK with ASP.NET Core
description: Learn best practices and the steps to properly implement the Azure SDK for .NET in your ASP.NET Core apps.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: devx-track-dotnet
ms.date: 10/22/2024
---

> # Implement the Azure SDK for .NET in ASP.NET Core apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the Azure SDK for .NET in ASP.NET Core apps
```

- Register services for dependency injection.
- Authenticate to Azure without using passwords or secrets.
- Implement centralized, standardized configuration.
- Configure common web app concerns such as logging and retries.

## Explore common Azure SDK client libraries

ASP.NET Core apps that connect to Azure services generally depend on the following client libraries:

- [Microsoft.Extensions.Azure](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Azure) provides helper methods to properly register your services and handles various concerns for you, such as setting up logging, handling service lifetimes, and authentication credential management.
- [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) enables Microsoft Entra ID authentication support across the Azure SDK. It provides a set of [TokenCredential](/dotnet/api/azure.core.tokencredential?view=azure-dotnet) implementations to construct Azure SDK clients that support Microsoft Entra authentication.

> - `Azure.<service-namespace>` libraries such as [Azure.Storage.Blob](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs) and [Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus) provide service clients and other types to help you connect to and consume specific Azure services.

Reviewer 4: Azure.Storage.Blob => Azure.Storage.Blobs

There's an "s" missing at the end.

The following table depicts how the Azure SDK for .NET `EventLevel` maps to the ASP.NET Core `LogLevel`. Visit the [Logging with the Azure SDK for .NET](/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) page to learn more.

| Azure SDK `EventLevel` | ASP.NET Core `LogLevel` |
|------------------------|-------------------------|
| `Critical`             | `Critical`              |
| `Error`                | `Error`                 |
| `Informational`        | `Information`           |
| `Warning`              | `Warning`               |
| `Verbose`              | `Debug`                 |
| `LogAlways`            | `Information`           |

You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#authenticate-using-microsoft-entra-id) section. For example, toggle a the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:

> :::code language="json" source="snippets/aspnetcore-guidance/MinApiSample/appsettings.Development.json" highlight="2-8":::

Reviewer 4: Should we link over to the [Dependency injection with the Azure SDK for .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/sdk/dependency-injection?tabs=web-app-builder) article somewhere in here?   That would come in handy as a reference for the more unusual + advanced scenarios that may pop up.

For example, when you run the app locally, `DefaultAzureCredential` discovers and uses credentials from the following developer tools:

- Environment variables
- Visual Studio
- Azure CLI
- Azure PowerShell
- Azure Developer CLI

`DefaultAzureCredential` also discovers credentials after you deploy your app from the following:

- Environment variables
- Workload identity
- Managed identity

## Configure logging

The Azure SDK for .NET client libraries include the ability to log client library operations. This logging allows you to monitor requests and responses between services clients and Azure services. When you register the Azure SDK library's client via a call to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Azure.AzureClientServiceCollectionExtensions.AddAzureClients%2A> extension method, some logging configurations are handled for you.

```csharp

>     ```csharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    clientBuilder.AddBlobServiceClient(
        builder.Configuration.GetSection("Storage"));

    clientBuilder.AddServiceBusClientWithNamespace(
        builder.Configuration["ServiceBus:Namespace"]);

    clientBuilder.UseCredential(new DefaultAzureCredential());

    // Set up any default settings
    clientBuilder.ConfigureDefaults(
        builder.Configuration.GetSection("AzureDefaults"));
});
```

In the preceding sample, the `AddAzureClients` method:

- Registers the following objects with the dependency injection (DI) container:
  - Log forwarder service
  - Azure Service Bus client
- Sets the default token credential to be used for all registered clients.

You can change default log levels and other settings using the same JSON configurations outlined in the [configure authentication](#configure-authentication) section. For example, toggle a the `ServiceBusClient` log level to `Debug` by setting the `Logging:LogLevel:Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` key as follows:

```json
{
"Logging": {
        "LogLevel": {
            "Default": "Information",
            "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning",
            "Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus": "Debug"
        }
    }
}
```

> ## Unit testing considerations

Reviewer: As discussed via Teams, remove this section. There's nothing specific to ASP.NET Core as it relates to unit testing.
